All right, so now that we got that,
what we can do now is we can
work on our seed scripts.
Let's get some data in the database,
specifically some playlists and stuff, and
we can populate our sidebar with some
playlists, we can do some authentication,
and we can get these pages going.
So authentication is probably
the biggest part of the whole app.
There's so many moving pieces when it
comes to authentication because all
the places you have to lock
down inside of an xjs apps.
But I think it's really cool.
I think it's really fascinating
how all of it works.
So I'm really excited about
the authentication part.
So let's do that.
So the first thing is let's create our
seed, I'm over at the Prisma folder.
We'll make a new file and
we'll call it seed.ts.
And this is where we're going
to write our seed script.
So the first thing is I'm gonna
import from the Prisma client.
So I'm gonna say import
from @prisma/client, and
I'm gonna import Prisma
client just like that.
The next thing I'm going to
is I'm gonna import bcrypt,
if you had to download bcryptjs you'll
just import bcrypt from bcryptjs.
It should have the same API but
for me it's bcrypt,
I'm gonna import that,
let me just fix my spelling.
There we go.
And the next thing we
wanna do is we want to,
I have some seed data that we're
gonna use to help with that.
Like all the songs that I have hosted
on some CDN somewhere like I have all
that inside of the Notion links.
So if we go here,
it should be, where's that?
Here we go, if you scroll down to
where it says Data and then Seed,
there's this whole file
where this is artistData.
So copy that, you're gonna need that,
there's no point of writing this by hand.
It's just a bunch of random data.
It will take forever
to write this by hand.
So copy all that seed data
there inside that link,
is literally just an array of artists and
songs.
Then you're gonna go back and
then I'm gonna inside the Prisma folder,
I'm going to make a new file called
songsData, songs plural Data.ts.
I'm gonna paste that in there.
And again,
this is just a bunch of artists and songs,
because if you think about Spotify,
there's two sides of Spotify, right?
There's the consumer side where
you're listening to music, and
then there's the artists side
where you're adding music.
We're not working on the artist side.
We're working on the consumer side.
The consumer side assumes that
their song was already there.
So we're gonna see the database with those
songs that should have already been there.
As a consumer Spotify you won't
go in there and make music,
you'll go in there listen to music
that was already created by artists.
So this is not the Spotify admin app
this is the Spotify consumer app.
So the music should already be there,
the seed script is the music already
being there, this is us doing that.
Okay, and
then we're gonna import that here.
So import artistsData from songsData.
So we got that, and then I'm gonna
make a new Prisma instance, so
I'm gonna say Prisma = new PrismaClient.
And what this does is,
what's really cool about this is that it
handles the database connection for us.
We never have to connect to a database,
Prisma just handles that for us,
which is really cool.
Like maintaining database connections
with pooling and stuff is,
especially in the service environment.
I think when I started using serverless
stuff when it first came out, you
couldn't, actually couldn't use, most of
the database is in a service environment.
Because most databases were built with
the understanding that they were gonna be
on some server that's running for a long
time with a connection that's always open.
But a service environment
doesn't happen that way.
So eventually you reach this point
where you have too many connections and
you have these cold starts and
everything's really slow.
Now you have all these service
databases like Aurora, AWS PlanetScale,
FaunaDB, got all these crazy things,
even Mongo serverless now.
So it's really nice to see that people are
starting to understand how that works and
Prisma just kind of stress a lot of
that stuff away which is really cool.
So cool and then the next thing is
we're gonna make a function called run.
I was gonna make an a sync function, and
then it's not doing anything right now but
I'm gonna go ahead and
call it and I'm gonna say .then.
And then I'm gonna say .finally.
And what I wanna do in this .finally
block is I just wanna disconnect.
So I'm gonna say
prisma.disconnect like so.
And I want to await it.
So I'm gonna say async awaits
prisma.disconnects, like that.
And instead of doing a dot,
then I'm gonna do a .catch.
And if there is an error,
I'm just gonna say process.exit1.
Just exit this process,
it'll probably exit anyway, and
I'll just log the error
just to see what happen.
But I'm just trying to make sure I
don't keep the database running and
have like a memory leak or I wanna
catch the error or something happens.
This is just my way of doing that.
I typically do this on every one off
script that I write, like if there's
an error exit 1, which means error
in terminal, 0 means non error.
And then disconnect the database.
So it's not just some lingering
database connection going around.
One issue we are gonna have
with Heroku is that, and
I think this just happens because, and
this is just not something you need to
Next.js is with any environment
that reloads off of save,
every time you save and the files reload,
that's gonna create a new connection.
Eventually we're gonna hit
a connection limit and
we're gonna get an error in the terminal,
we got to stop the app and start it again.
So that'll probably happen, I don't know,
every 30 saves, every 40 saves.
I found out when I was building this
app out, it's not an issue just stop
the server start it again, it'll start
a new pool and we should be good.
It's only in development.
Now, Let's see some things.
So the first thing, I wanna seed is,
I wanna insert the artist and
the songs into the database,
followed by a user and
then followed by some playlists that have
all those songs that belong to the user.
So I wanna insert all those in a database,
that way we can log in with a user
that already has playlists,
that already has songs in it,
that already belong to an artist.
So we'll have all those things.
So that's my goal, so
we'll write a cscript for that.
So the way we can do that
is there's no right way, so
I'm just gonna do it the way
that I think is cool.
So I'm gonna do a promise that all and
inside this promise all I'm
just gonna say artistData.map.
And then what I wanna do for
each one of these artists, Artists,
artists or async artists.
For each one of these artists what I
wanna do is I wanna return, Prisma.
And you can see right now
I'm getting autocomplete.
Prisma knows that I have an artist entity,
because it's type checked
based off our schema.
So I get this nice autocomplete for
prisma.artist.
And you see there's playlists,
there's song, there's user,
we already knows all this stuff.
It's pretty cool.
So I'm gonna say prisma.artist,
and I'm gonna say upsert.
Upsert just means create or update.
That's what it means, is like,
if it exists, just update it to this.
If it doesn't exist, create it with this.
It's literally create or update.
This is gonna allow our cscript to be
ran even though we might have data in it
already.
It won't modify it if it already exists.
Maybe you want your cscript to
always add new things to it.
If that's the case, you could have your
cscript, delete everything first and
then add it.
You can also just reset the database
before you run your cscript.
I prefer to do it that way.
I just reset my database, then run the
seed scripts versus having a seed script
delete everything out of the database.
There's no right way or wrong way.
So we're gonna use upsert here.
And then for the upsert, basically
first you gotta do your query and
the way you do that is you type in where.
So you will say I wanna upsert,
so find any artists
whose name equals artist.name like that.
And then update, so
if you find the artists,
I want you to update it with nothing.
I actually don't want
to do an update here.
There is a cscript I'm not
trying to update anything,
I really only wanna create.
So, if you find an artist that
already exists with his name,
then there's nothing to do.
But, if you don't,
I want you to create this artist.
This artist gonna have a name,
you can see I'm getting autocomplete here,
you can see it says name string,
it knows artist has names.
So I can type in a name,
that's gonna be artists.name,
I also know that an artist must have a,
what do they have?
Yeah they have songs, right?
So I could insert some songs here.
And this is where I think Prisma is really
cool, cuz you can do nested inserts.
Every other ORM that I use,
you can't create nested things.
You have to create them separately and
then link them together.
So you have to do like
multiple database calls.
But in this one instance,
I could also say, I also want to create,
and I can go down here,
and I can say, let me see.
I'm sorry, not create,
I can say songs, like this.
And then I want to create songs like that.
And then now when I wanna create these
songs, all I need to do is basically,
if we go look at this data,
every artist has a songs array.
So I can just insert those songs for
every artist.
So really all I got to do is
say I wanna create these songs.
All I have to do is say artists.songs.map.
We're gonna grab a song like that.
And for each one of these songs, I just
need to add the fields for every song.
So a song has a name, we get
the autocomplete there, that song.name.
A song also has a duration,
did I add that?
No, I didn't add that, so
we'll go back and add that.
Actually I'll do that right now.
So we're gonna go back to our song schema,
gonna add a duration.
I'm gonna say type Int, then hit Save.
>> Someone had a question about
the user ID being Int question mark,
is that correct?
>> This one right here?
Why is this here,
there's a good reason this is here.
One sec, I think this is here, let me see.
Actually I think I might
be ahead of myself.
Let me see.
No, this shouldn't be there.
I think I just let the autocomplete
just do it and I didn't fix it.
But I think for a one to one relationship,
you have to put a question mark
there because which one comes first?
So one of them has to be like,
not required, but this isn't a one to one.
So no,
you don't need a question mark there.
So great catch whoever you are, thank you.
Awesome, I will push
after I run this db push.
So let me do a db push.
So the change I did was
a duration integer on the song.
Now I'm going to say mpx prisma db push,
cool.
Sync the database with that new field,
it generated the Prisma client,
so if I go back to seed we should
see this should autocomplete for
me now with duration.
There it is, duration shows up now.
So I can just say song.duration.
>> I had a question on client
side versus server side.
Is it best practice to create Prisma
models within the next js app,
are we doing it just for this project?
Should we separate server side and
create the models and API using nodejs and
express to keep distinction
between client and server?
>> So, very great question.
The question was, should we separate the
back end stuff from the front end stuff?
I would say, well, first of all,
let's talk about Next.js.
But next JS,
there really is no separation.
We haven't gotten to the part yet
where you can actually write back end
code inside the front end components.
Next JS allows you to do that,
it encourages you to do that that
was a whole point of the framework.
So it's a full stack
framework that does both.
And we're using next JS so
the answer is no,
this is not just me doing it in
the courses I think it's great.
Now this is exactly how you would do in
a production if you're using next JS.
You will put Prisma right here because
next JS is a full stack framework,
it's not just front end,
it's also back end as you see in
the Pages folder there's an API folder.
And when we get to this you'll realize
every one of these files in here
is a serverless function that we can
use as a URL that we can hit and
they can access the database and
the front end can talk to that.
We can also use the database directly
aside the components as well without even
going through the API.
So there's different ways we can do that.
On a traditional app, yeah,
you probably might want to separate
out the back end from the front end so
there's clear concerns, but you might
also have your own mono repo as well and
have everything there and
then just deploy them separately.
But initially when I was making
this course, I did do that,
I was gonna just have
a regular react front end, and
then have like a node express or
pacify back in with Prisma or something.
But then I realized that that's actually
not how I would build the app today.
I actually would use something like
next JS and just build a full stack app.
Because for me, there's just less overhead
I can deploy to one platform versus two
different platforms, and
all my code lives together.
And the sweet thing with Prisma is
that you get those type checks.
So I really wanna be able to
use that inside of Next.js.
So if it had a different repo,
I don't get that.
So, yeah this is actually the way
you would do with next JS, so
if you go read the guides with next JS and
Prisma or either one of the websites,
this is exactly how they
would teach you how to do it.
All right, there we go, duration and
then, what else does a song need?
I think we forgot one
important thing on a song.
Song needs a URL.
How are we gonna play it?
So song needs a URL.
We're gonna add a string to that.
I'm also gonna do a db push again.
Every time I change the schema I'm doing
a push until I feel pretty confident
with it, until I do a migrate, so
I'll do a push again cuz I added a URL.
That'll generate the schema again, and
then now I'm gonna go back to my seed.
And you can see this thing is freaking
out, it's like, you need a URL here,
which I think is so cool.
So we need that.
So I'm gonna say song.URL.
There we go.
So now we got a URL here.
And I think that's pretty dope.